1. **Traditional:** Traditional learner population.  
2. **Persons with learning disabilities:** Using the IDEA (2004) definition, this is about persons not performing at the levels they are capable of in one or more areas, they may have multiple learning disabilities. Examples include (but are not limited to) dyslexia or ADD or ADHD, test anxiety, etc. Students have gone through an individual evaluation and been assessed as needing special education or other services. 
3. **Persons with physical disabilities:** Deaf or hard of hearing, blind etc. 
4. **English language learners:** Learners are being taught subject matter in a location where English is the primary language but is not their native language. If learning English this would be immersion in a general english population. 
5. **Low income:** Learners from families making 125% of the poverty level for a family their size, the percentage of pell grant recipients at a college, K-12 learners receiving free/reduced lunch. Given this moving target, look for the authors to classify their population as ⅓ or more low income using one of the above characteristics. 
6. **Under-represented:** Learners who are underrepresented in the discipline under study (on the basis of being rural, ethnicity/race, or gender)
7. **High performing:** Learners are either tested and identified as gifted/talented or the article highlights the high performance nature of the learners/setting (see for example (Tan et al., 2005): "Top Ten in the nation in the past five years based on the studentsí performance in the General Cambridge Level Examination. The school has a tradition of excellence in science, as demonstrated by their challenging curricular and co-curricular science-based programmes, the pupil’s strong academic performance and their achievements in various zone and national". Honor courses are considered high performing.
8. **Under performing:** The study makes a case that the population struggles to perform. For example, (Ross & Bruce, 2009) Teachers were asked to identify a classroom of theirs that struggled most with the content. In addition, "teachers used the results of the first test occasion and their knowledge of students to identify 91 of their 364 students (25%) for CLIPS training" So this is essentially the bottom quartile of the grade. Then from that bottom quartile the teachers chose 39 to receive all CLIPS. Since "26% of this population was identified as special needs" (p722) I would argue that the experimental condition was composed of special needs.

TODO:
References